2048cc GTK2 Replayer
=====================

**Initial author**: [migf1](mailto:mig_f1@hotmail.com)  
**Latest version**: 0.2a (August 7, 2014)  

Copyright (c) 2014 [migf1](mailto:mig_f1@hotmail.com)  

As its name suggests, **2048cc GTK2 Replayer** is a graphical GTK+2 front-end for
replaying moves recorded by the **[2048cc game](https://github.com/geomagas/2048cc)**.
It is written in C99 using the 2.24.10 GTK+2 API and as such it is meant to
be source-wise cross-platform across at least Windows and Linux (for more
information about the **sources**, please read the separate **src/README.md** file).

It currently supports replay-files generated by version 0.3a3 of the 2048cc game.
My plan is to keep updating it as the 2048cc evolves.

Pre-compiled Binaries
---------------------

The included zip-file contains a pre-compiled 32-bit executable for **Windows**
(XP or newer), called: **gtk2_replayer.exe**

To run it, the **GTK+2.24.10 runtime** must be already installed on your system
(the GTK+2.24.8 runtime may also work). If you don't already have it, you will
find convenient installers at the dedicated for this purpose **[website](  http://gtk-win.sourceforge.net/home/index.php/Main/Downloads )**, or directly
from their **[sourceforge account](  http://sourceforge.net/projects/gtk-win/files/GTK%2B%20Runtime%20Environment/GTK%2B%202.24/ )**.

On other platforms, you can compile the sources. Please refer to the document
**src/README.md** for instructions on how to do that on Windows and Linux (and
possibly on other platforms too).

User Guide
==========

The 2048cc game already utilizes a replay viewer from within its own
text-user-interface, but it is rather limited and cumbersome. The **GTK2 Replayer**
offers a much more pleasant experience, not only due to the graphical-user-interface,
but also due to the enhanced functionality it provides.

Features such as: pausable/stopable playback, direct jump to any recorded move,
handy moves-slider, playback speed customization, convenient file chooser-dialog
and more, are not available in the default replay viewer of the 2048cc game.

Internationalization
--------------------

Internationalization is not working yet, but the fundamental support is partially
implemented. That's why when you launch the program on Windows, an alert-box
may pop up, informing you that **"No proper locale found! English will be used
as the fall-back language"**.

You may safely ignore this warning. English is the only supported language for
the moment. When internationalization is fully implemented, I will update this
guide with details on how to utilize it on-the-fly from within the program.

The Main Window
---------------

When launching the replayer, the only available options are: `File->Open`,
`File->Quit` and `Help->About`. Hopefully, they are all self explanatory.
The remaining elements of the main window (menus, slider, status-bar, etc)
are disabled.

The main window of the replayer consists of the following elements (top to bottom):

1. **Menubar**  
Hosts all the command menus. Most of the commands come with keyboard shortcuts,
which are displayed next to their name, inside the menus. They are not explicitly
listed in this guide, because they may change in future versions. However, some
commands may have **more than one keyboard shortcuts**, but only one of them is
displayed. Worth mentioning examples are the commands `Playback->Speed->Faster`
and `Playback->Speed->Slower` which besides their displayed keyboard shortcuts,
they can also be activated with the keys `+` and `-`, repectively.

2. **Scores Area**  
Displays the player's score and the board's best-score
when the currently viewed move was recorded.

3. **Board**  
Displays the recorded tiles' arrangement of the currently viewed move.

4. **Playback Slider**  
Reflects both the absolute and the relative position
of the currently viewed move, compared to the total count of recorded moves. It
may also be used for navigating through moves (see the sections **Playback** and
**Manual Navigation**, below).

5. **Playback Toolbar**  
Contains icon shortcuts for most of the commands
found in the `File->Playback` menu. However, the last 2 icons are **not** command
shortcuts. The 1st icon shows in what direction was the board played in order to
reach the currently viewed move. The 2nd icon shows in what direction was the
board played during the currently viewed move.

6. **Statusbar**  
This is the last element of the window, displaying information about the currently
loaded replay-file:
  - the file-name truncated to its last 15 letters
  - the total count of recorded moves
  - the board size
  - the value of the winning tile (sentinel tile)
  - the count of randomly spawned tiles after every successful move
  - the current playback-speed
  - whether the recorded game has been won or not

   >Those pieces of information may change in future versions, so
   >a more accurate alternative to this guide would be to move your
   >mouse over the statusbar and leave it still for a couple of seconds.
   >This will cause a tag to pop up, explaining all the information
   >currently displayed inside the statusbar.


Loading Replay-Files
--------------------

Loading a replay-file is pretty straight forward. Use the menu command `File->Open`
and the **file chooser dialog** will show up. Use it to select the desired file.
If the selected file is not a valid replay-file, it will not be loaded and you
will be informed accordingly.

   >If you are a Windows user, the looks of the **file chooser dialog** will
   >be quite unfamiliar. When you overcome the initial... shock, chances are
   >that you will pretty soon become accustomed to it. Just to give you a
   >starting hint, those `+`/`-` signs on the bottom of the left pane, may
   >be used for adding/removing folders as **bookmarks**.

Playback
--------

Playing back a loaded replay-file is also straight forward: just hit the `Play`
button on the Playback toolbar, or invoke the corresponding menu-command:
`Playback->Play` (either by selecting it with the mouse, or via its keyboard
shortcut).

During playback, both the `Play` command and the **Playback Slider** get disabled
for user-input, but the slider keeps reflecting the currently viewed move. You
may `Pause` or `Stop` the playback at any time, to regain access to the slider
and to the `Play` command. The difference between **pausing** and **stopping**
is that the latter resets the playback back to the 1st recorded move, while the
former leaves it at the currently viewed move.

**Playback speed**

You may alter the playback-speed at any time, by invoking the menu commands
`Playback->Speed->Reset` (resets the speed to the recorded one), `Playback->Speed->Slower`
and `Playback->Speed->Faster`. The latter 2 decrease and increase, respectively,
the playback-speed in steps of **half of a second** (500 milliseconds). The
range for the speed values is 250 to 5000 milliseconds (inclusive).

Manual Navigation
-----------------

Playback may be quite fancy, but when examining a replay-file in order to
discover the applied strategy, manual navigation may prove way more useful.

Besides the expected `Playback->First`, `Playback->Previous`, `Playback->Next`
and `Playback->Last` commands, the GTK2 Replayer also provides 2 additional
means of manual navigation:

- the command `Playback->Jump to...`
- the **Playback Slider**.

The `Playback->Jump to...` command can be invoked at any time, allowing to
jump directly to a user specified move (input is given via a dialog window).
If the command is invoked during playback, then it jumps to the specified move
and playback continues from there.

The **Playback Slider** works differently. By dragging its handle with the
mouse, either to the left or to the right, you can navigate to a move coming
before or after the currently viewed one, respectively. While dragging the
handle, the main window reflects dynamically the move under the dragged handle.

Alternatively, you may just click inside the slider before or after the handle,
in order to sequentially skip a fixed number of moves, before or after the
currently viewed one. This fixed number of moves equals to 10% of the
total recorded moves. So, if for example the currently loaded replay-file
contains a total of 1500 moves, each click skips the previous or next 15 moves.


License
=======

This software is open-source, free software with only 3 limitations:

1. Keep it free and open-source.
2. Do not attempt to make any kind of profit from it or from any
   derivatives of it.
3. Always re-distribute the original package, along with any
   software you distribute based on this software.

Disclaimer
==========

Use the program at your own risk! I take no responsibility for
any damage it may cause to your system.
